---
title: "Is Your B2B Brand Using these Badass Pinterest Marketing Tips?"
date: "2013-12-10"
category: 
  - "social-media-marketing"
tags: 
  - "diy"
  - "ie"
  - "pinterest"
  - "social-media-marketing-2"
authors: "patohmahinge"
image: "../../assets/images/ipad-605420_1280.jpg"
---

Many businesses overlook Pinterest when researching on possible social media marketing tools. They mistakenly undermine it as just another fancy 'thing' for recipes and craft projects. Are you committing<!--more--> the same mistake? How effective is your business or brand in Pinterest? Most of the time, the lack of action is due to lack of effective Pinterest marketing tips. At other times, laziness and ignorance takes over.

There are two main reasons why your business needs to establish a presence in Pinterest right now.

- [Businesses that utilize Pinterest as part of their marketing strategy are seeing huge conversion rates](https://mahinge.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/marketing-statistics "Social Media Conversion Rates"). Since Pinterest is not well known as a business marketing tool, it is a good idea to get ahead of competition and use the image-based website for your brand strategy.
- The content on Pinterest is highly visual. Users can digest a lot of content very quickly due to the focus on images. Users scroll through images quickly, pinning things that grab their attention. You just might never know who and who will end up seeing your pins.

I like to point out David’s Bridal as one of the businesses that have effectively mastered the art of using Pinterest marketing tips to their advantage. They post photos of their gowns, along with real wedding photos from their customers and they supply photos of hot wedding décor trends. They are targeting the majority female audience on Pinterest that have dream wedding boards. Not surprisingly, they registered a 25% surge on their web visits since they branched into Pinterest.

If the above does not convince you, here are a few statistics to ponder about. Remember, **numbers don't lie.**

\[sociallocker\]

- Nearly 70 percent of people who get on Pinterest find items they want to buy. Etsy is becoming very successful thanks to Pinterest.
- There are 2.5 billion page views every month on Pinterest. It is hard for businesses to ignore this kind of traffic opportunity.
- 70 percent of brand engagement on Pinterest is generated by users. This makes it important to engage customers with your pins.

\[/sociallocker\]

Understanding how customers work on Pinterest can allow you to craft a Pinterest marketing strategy that provides deeper engagement and leads conversion of new customers. If you are not doing it already, here are 4 Pinterest marketing strategies to get you going.

1. **1.      **Use contests.**** Just like Facebook, Pinterest is a perfect platform for a giveaway contest. Users can either pin a photo of an item to win it, or they can pin five of their favorite items on your Pinterest board in order to win a gift card or shopping spree.
2. **2.**      **Tell your story.** This does not mean post pictures of your weekend excursions. Leave that on Facebook. People like to know the company they are looking at. Make a board called Our Story and post pictures, such as the first dollar you ever made, with a link to your About Us page on the business website. You can also post a cool graphic that tells your mission, photos of philanthropic and volunteer work you have done, and items that tell the story about what your business stands for.
3. **3.**      **Spread knowledge.** Either make your own or find and share how-to tutorials, DIY projects, tips, and your personal expertise on matters that relate to your business. For example, David’s Bridal pins advice on invitations with a photo that links to the whole article about it. So, if you did this, post a high quality photo of beautiful invitations with the title of the article in the description (IE: “5 Things That Make Invitations More Effective”). Then have the photo link to the article.
4. **4.      **Sell part of your catalog.****  While you should not put your whole catalog on Pinterest, you can post new items or customer favorites on Pinterest. Put what the item is in the description, along with all of the features or uses for the item. The description is where you get to place a miniature product review. Make sure to link to the webpage where customers can buy the product. This is especially important since customers want to see what they were promised once they click on a link.
